{"findings": [{"id": "F011", "targets": ["D-030", "D-006", "verification"], "blocking": false, "problem": "D-030 applies a gain edit at the next capture chunk boundary and says preview and waveform use that effective gain, but it does not state whether the boundary is fixed when frames are admitted to the ring or when the writer converts them. D-006 allows the writer to fall up to sixty seconds behind admission, so the two readings diverge exactly when a user is most likely to touch the slider.", "basis": "Scenario: an F3-style write stall leaves the writer 30 seconds behind. The user sees a low waveform and raises gain from 1.0 to 2.0. If gain is latched at write time, the chunks written next cover audio admitted 30 seconds earlier; they are saved at 2.0 with permanent saturation, their headers record 2.0, and the waveform showed them at 1.0. If gain is latched at admission time, saved audio matches the display. The chosen representation is post-gain and clipping is irrecoverable, so the ambiguity decides which audio is permanently altered. 'Frame ranges locate gain changes' also sits oddly beside 'each chunk has one effective gain'; if sub-chunk ranges are intended, the per-chunk header field is insufficient, and if not, the sentence adds nothing. State that gain is latched per chunk at admission, independent of writer backlog, and add a gain change during F3's injected stalls to the chunk-boundary-timing check."}, {"id": "F012", "targets": ["D-026", "D-007", "verification"], "blocking": false, "problem": "D-026 makes the global cancellation binding eligible for 'a live dictation or explicitly selected processing operation', and eligible bindings consume the key gesture so the foreground application never receives it. Nothing states whether a processing operation selected in the app's own UI remains 'explicitly selected' while another application is frontmost.", "basis": "Scenario: cancellation is bound to Escape. The user selects a running Note rewrite in History to watch its progress, switches to Slack, and presses Escape to dismiss a popover. Under the text as written the binding matches the selected run, the event is consumed, D-007 discards the incomplete generation output, and Slack keeps its popover open. The user bound Escape expecting it to cancel live dictation, which is the case F5's emoji-picker fixture covers; the fixture does not exercise a selected background operation. Restrict global-binding eligibility to live dictation, or to selected operations only while the app is frontmost, and add the background-selection case to the Escape fixtures so pass-through is verified."}]}