{"findings": [
{"id": "F001", "targets": ["D-004", "D-011", "D-027", "verification"], "blocking": true, "problem": "The final-speech fairness rule alternates window units between the latest stopped live run and the oldest waiting run, but the final recognition service holds one resident model inside a 2 GiB charge and D-011 evicts it for a different model. Nothing makes the scheduler residency-aware, so runs pinned to different speech models reload a model at every turn.", "basis": "Custom modes select their own speech model, so a meeting mode on a large model and a dictation mode on a small one is an ordinary configuration. Scenario: a two-hour meeting recognition with model A is queued and the user dictates every minute with model B. The rule as written yields B, B, A, B, B, A with an unload and load at each switch; the charge cannot hold both. Every dictation pays a model load before its first window and the meeting advances one window per two loads. F1 measures reload only within one model, so the failure is not observed before acceptance. State the rule for differing models, for example granting the resident model's run extra windows before switching or bounding switches per interval, and add the mixed-model workload to F1's fairness case."},
{"id": "F002", "targets": ["D-031", "D-020", "D-004", "D-043"], "blocking": false, "problem": "Recognition and diarization checkpoints carry the same validation (input hash, stream, window index, parameters, runtime revision), yet a crash leaves diarization interrupted_resumable while a failed recognition run's checkpoints are reclaimed and an explicit new run recomputes everything. D-004 also routes app-initiated worker termination under capture pressure to that failure policy instead of orderly preemption.", "basis": "Scenario: meeting recognition has committed 230 of 240 windows when the user starts a dictation and memory pressure terminates the final-speech worker. The run fails, 230 validated checkpoints are reclaimed after leases drain, and the retry recomputes two hours of audio. D-031's rationale about reviving stale delivery intent does not apply because recognition publishes to History, not to a target. Either let an explicit retry resume from the last valid checkpoint under the same manifest, or record why recognition checkpoints are less trustworthy than diarization checkpoints. D-031 should also state whether interrupted_resumable resumes automatically at launch or waits for an explicit action, since automatic resume admits a 1.5 GiB job before any user action."},
{"id": "F003", "targets": ["D-010", "D-009", "verification"], "blocking": false, "problem": "Every Unicode-route insertion ends unconfirmed because Unicode event success never qualifies as acknowledgment. D-010 says uncertain attempts offer inspection, dismissal or editing, but does not say whether an unconfirmed attempt without a paste barrier retires on its own or stays pending until the user acts.", "basis": "If dismissal is required, each unprofiled dictation costs one action and the remembered Unicode route can never meet F4's 0.1 actions-per-dictation threshold, although the design presents it as the routine option for unprofiled targets. If it retires automatically, uncertain attempts leave the panel and the user may never learn that a silent no-op occurred, which is the failure Apple's Unicode warning describes. State the retirement rule for non-barrier unconfirmed attempts and count it in F4."},
{"id": "F004", "targets": ["D-016", "D-010", "D-039"], "blocking": false, "problem": "Clipboard context is sampled within 200 ms of the trigger, and D-010 keeps the previous transcript on the clipboard until barrier retirement. With a remembered paste route and clipboard context enabled, every dictation receives the prior dictation's text as context.", "basis": "Scenario: the user pastes dictation one into Terminal, then dictates again without resolving the barrier. The second run's context contains transcript one; D-012 treats eight-token context copying as advisory only, so the generator can merge or repeat the earlier text, and opt-in retention stores it as an artifact. ClipboardSession already records app ownership through changeCount, so the sampler can recognize its own pending write. State whether app-owned clipboard content is excluded from context or recorded as an omission."},
{"id": "F005", "targets": ["D-026", "D-007"], "blocking": false, "problem": "Global Escape cancels a live dictation, and D-007 now commits discard on every explicit live cancellation regardless of the interruption preference, with no confirmation or recovery path.", "basis": "Scenario: during a ten-minute dictation into Slack the user presses Escape to close an emoji picker. The dictation is discarded and its verified audio deleted; D-031 offers nothing because discard was committed. Whether the Escape event also reaches the foreground app is unstated, so either the popover stays open, the audio is lost, or both. The spec requires configurable shortcuts and does not require Escape. Make the cancel binding configurable, state whether the event is consumed, and consider confirmation or a brief undo for captures beyond a stated length."},
{"id": "F006", "targets": ["D-025", "D-030", "data_lifecycle"], "blocking": false, "problem": "D-025 applies application-local microphone gain and D-030 records gain and clipping, but neither states whether stored chunks hold pre-gain or post-gain samples.", "basis": "Post-gain storage makes clipping permanent, so a recording made with excessive gain cannot be reprocessed cleanly and the clipping flag is only a diagnosis. Pre-gain storage requires playback and every recognizer window to apply the recorded gain. This is a persistent-data decision the spec says not to defer to implementation; choose one and state the playback and reprocessing consequence."},
{"id": "F007", "targets": ["D-016", "D-039", "D-032"], "blocking": false, "problem": "Screen context capture does not state whether it takes the focused window, the frontmost application's windows or the full display.", "basis": "Full-display capture collects other applications' visible content, such as a password manager or chat window beside the target, supplies it to the model and, with opt-in retention, stores it as an owned artifact. The spec asks the design to define what is sampled and retained for each source. State the capture region and multi-display handling."},
{"id": "F008", "targets": ["D-041", "D-028", "D-022"], "blocking": false, "problem": "D-041 refers to download catalogs with exact hashes and notices, but nothing states whether the catalog is bundled or fetched, and D-028 authorizes ModelDownloader only for user-requested acquisition of an approved URL.", "basis": "A fetched catalog is a network path outside D-028's contract; an implementation could refresh it at launch and violate the requirement that routine operation needs no network. A bundled catalog goes stale between releases and needs a stated update path. Record the catalog source, its trigger and the process that performs it."},
{"id": "F009", "targets": ["D-001", "assumptions"], "blocking": false, "problem": "D-001's rationale and assumption 1 state that the Argmax package focuses on Apple Silicon, but ref/RESEARCH.md records only the macOS 14 and Xcode 16 prerequisites.", "basis": "The arm64-only packaging is justified by a claim absent from the supplied evidence. REVIEW_NOTES requires an explicit engineering reason for a first-release hardware limitation. If the package builds and runs on Intel, the exclusion has no stated basis; if it does not, cite the source. Otherwise attribute the choice to the unperformed Intel evaluation rather than to the dependency."},
{"id": "F010", "targets": ["D-007", "D-026", "verification"], "blocking": false, "problem": "D-007 names the meeting cancellation control Discard recording, while D-026 names Start Meeting, Stop Meeting and Cancel Meeting, and F5 fixtures use Discard recording.", "basis": "Two names for one control in the authoritative contracts will produce different labels in menu, panel and fixtures. Name it once and reference it."}
]}